Astro Pagination component (#500)
ritterim/rimdev-blog: src/content/posts/2023-03-09-creating-a-pagination-component-with-astro.md

---
title: "Creating A Pagination Component With Astro"
slug: creating-a-pagination-component-with-astro
date: 2023-03-09 11:31:06
tags: 
- Astro
- JavaScript
- frontend
categories:
- JavaScript
- frontend
- Astro
twitter_text: "Creating A Pagination Component With Astro"
authors: 
- Ted Krueger
image: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1531177071211-ed1b7991958b?ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=MnwxMjA3fDB8MHxzZWFyY2h8NTd8fHNwYWNlJTIwc2hpcHxlbnwwfHwwfHw%3D&auto=format&fit=crop&w=800&q=60
image_url: https://unsplash.com/photos/b3PuuRU8IPc
image_credit: Zoltan Tasi
---

Here at RIMdev, we're currently converting our static sites to use [Astro](https://astro.build/). As we switch from our current SSGs, [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/) and [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/), we're creating reusable components that we'd like to document for the team. This series of posts will contain those components for not only our benefit but hopefully yours as well!

> Something that Hugo did well was Pagination. It was very simple to implement but it came with some limitations. Astro does not have a specific Pagination component but it _does_ give you the tools to make your own. Here's what I came up with and used on a couple of our sites for blog sections...

Author: I don't like commas semi-colons grammar or punctuation in general. 😏

## [TLDR;](#putting-it-together)
<div class="mb-3 text--center">
<img src="/images/get-to-the-point.gif" alt="Get to the point"/>
</div>

First, create your blog page within `/src/pages`. I like to add another folder here called `/blog` just to try to keep things a bit cleaner. So we have:

```
src
- pages
  - blog
```

> Inside here add your page for the blog landing. This is the page that will show all of your posts, or at least what we want. You'll need the use brackets in this page title. Call it `[...page].astro`. We need the `[]` wrapping the name as this is a dynamic route.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inside here add your page for the blog landing. This is the page that will show all of your posts, or at least what we want. You'll need to use brackets in this page title. Call it `[...page].astro`. We need the `[]` wrapping the name as this is a dynamic route.
```

```
src
- pages
  - blog
    - [...page].astro
```

## [Blog Landing](#blog-landing)

> Now let's get to the guts of `[...page].astro`. You'll be leveraging `page.data` here. We also need 2 other components `PostSummary.astro`, which is a block of blog info like a title, image, and a teaser. You can add more to this if you need and I'll show you what this looks like in a bit. We also need a `Pagination.astro` component. This can also be customizzed to your needs but it will most likely always have the same data passed to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's get to the guts of `[...page].astro`. You'll be leveraging `page.data` here. We also need 2 other components:  `PostSummary.astro`, which is a block of blog info like a title, image, and a teaser. You can add more to this if you need, and I'll show you what this looks like in a bit. We also need a `Pagination.astro` component. This can also be customized to your needs, but it will most likely always have the same data passed to it.
```

The frontmatter of `[...page].astro` should look like:

```javascript
---
import PostSummary from "../../layouts/partials/blog/PostSummary.astro";
import Pagination from '../../components/Pagination.astro';

export async function getStaticPaths({ paginate }) {
  const allPosts = await Astro.glob('./*.md*');
  const formattedPosts = allPosts.sort((a, b) => new Date(a.frontmatter.date) - new Date(b.frontmatter.date)).reverse();

  return paginate(formattedPosts, {
    pageSize: 5,
  })
}
const { page } = Astro.props;
---
```

> Include your components, PostSummary and Pagination. We use the `getStaticPaths` function to grab each blog post. In this case it's anything in our /blog folder and we're looking for any file that ends in either a `.md` or `.mdx` file type. We want to format them by the most recent post. That's what we're doing with the `formattedPosts` variable. Once we have our posts array we can set the total number of posts we want to show. In this case it's 5. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Include your components, PostSummary and Pagination. We use the `getStaticPaths` function to grab each blog post. In this case, it's anything in our /blog folder, and we're looking for any file that ends in either a `.md` or `.mdx` file type. We want to format them by the most recent post. That's what we're doing with the `formattedPosts` variable. Once we have our posts array, we can set the total number of posts we want to show. In this case, it's 5. 
```

Author: I don't like commas.

```javascript
  return paginate(formattedPosts, {
    pageSize: 5,
  })
```

Finally we need to get page data so we use: 

```javascript
const { page } = Astro.props;
```

> If you want to see what this looks like add `console.log(page)` in your front matter. This will show you an array of your posts and the data inside them you can utilize.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to see what this looks like, add `console.log(page)` in your front matter. This will show you an array of your posts and the data inside them that you can utilize.
```

---
title: "Creating A Pagination Component With Astro"

> slug: creating-pagination-component-with-astro

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
slug: creating-a-pagination-component-with-astro
```

date: 2023-03-09 11:31:06
tags: 
- Astro

> - SSG

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Astro isn't really an SSG?

- JavaScript
- frontend
categories:
- JavaScript
- frontend
- Astro
twitter_text: "Creating A Pagination Component With Astro"
authors: 
- Ted Krueger
image: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1531177071211-ed1b7991958b?ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=MnwxMjA3fDB8MHxzZWFyY2h8NTd8fHNwYWNlJTIwc2hpcHxlbnwwfHwwfHw%3D&auto=format&fit=crop&w=800&q=60
image_url: https://unsplash.com/photos/b3PuuRU8IPc
image_credit: Zoltan Tasi
---

> Here at RIMdev, we're currently converting our static sites to use [Astro](https://astro.build/). As we switch from our current SSGs, [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/), and [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) we're creating reusable components that we'd like to document for the team. This series of posts will contain those components for not only our benefit but hopefully yours as well!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here at RIMdev, we're currently converting our static sites to use [Astro](https://astro.build/). As we switch from our current SSGs, [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/) and [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/), we're creating reusable components that we'd like to document for the team. This series of posts will contain those components for not only our benefit but hopefully yours as well!
```

> Something that Hugo did well was Pagination. It was very simple to implement but it came with some limitations. Astro does not have a specific Pagination component but it _does_ give you the tools to make your own. Here's what I came up with that I've used in a couple of our sites for blog sections...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Something that Hugo did well was Pagination. It was very simple to implement but it came with some limitations. Astro does not have a specific Pagination component but it _does_ give you the tools to make your own. Here's what I came up with and used on a couple of our sites for blog sections...
```
